EIP-5173: NFT Future Rewards (nFR) Standard (#5173)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-nfr.md

---

> eip: eip-nfr.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eip: 5173
```
Don't forget to rename the file to `eip-5173.md` as well.

title: NFT Future Rewards (nFR) Standard

> description: In this EIP, we propose a multigenerational reward mechanism that rewards‌ all ‌owners of non-fungible tokens (NFT).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A multi-generational reward mechanism that rewards‌ all ‌owners of non-fungible tokens (NFT).
```

author: Yale ReiSoleil <yale@iob.fi>, dRadiant (@dRadiant), D Wang, PhD <david@iob.fi>

> discussions-to: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5173

Reviewer: This must be a link to a thread on Ethereum Magicians.

Reviewer 2: That's right. Changed.

type: Standards Track
category: ERC
status: Draft
created: 2022-05-08
requires: 165, 721
---

> ## Simple Summary
> 
> This proposal outlines the interface of a new ERC721 standard extension. NFTs can then define, process, and distribute rewards based on the realized profit to former owners.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Not a valid EIP section.  See https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ethereum/EIPs/master/eip-template.md for the latest version of the template.

NFTs, in contrast to physical art and collectibles in the physical world, are not currently reflecting the contributions of their owners to their value. Since the ERC721 token can be tracked individually, and may be modified to record every change in price of any specific NFT token, there is no reason that a Future Rewards program of this type should not be established.

This EIP establishes a standard interface for a profit sharing structure in all stages of the token's ownership history desired by all market participants.

Additionally, as we will explain later, it discourages any "under-the-table" deals that may circumvent the rules set forth by artists and marketplaces.

## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

> We are implementing this extension using the [Open Zeppelin ERC721 set of interfaces, contracts, and utilities](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/api/token/erc721).

Reviewer: External links not allowed.  You should be referring to EIP-721 here, not a particular implementation of it on the internet.

### Future Rewards Calculation

Marketplaces that support this standard MAY implement various methods of calculating or transferring Future Rewards to the previous owners.

```solidity

function _calculateFR(uint256 totalProfit, uint256 buyerReward, uint256 successiveRatio, uint256 ownerAmount, uint256 windowSize) pure internal virtual returns(uint256[] memory) {
    //...        
}

```

In this example (*Figure 1*), a seller is REQUIRED to share a portion of their net profit with 10 previous holders of the token. Future Rewards will also be paid to the same seller as the value of the token increases from up to 10 subsequent owners. 

When an owner loses money during their holding period, they MUST NOT be obligated to share Future Rewards distributions, since there is no profit to share. However, he SHALL still receive a share of Future Rewards distributions from future generations of owners, if they are profitable.

> ![Figure 1: Geometric sequence distribution](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dRadiant/EIPs/master/assets/eip-nfr/Total_FR_Payout_Distribution-geo.png) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Figure 1: Geometric sequence distribution](../assets/eip-5173/Total_FR_Payout_Distribution-geo.png) 
```
All links should be relative, and also don't forget to update the assets folder to `eip-5173` for all of these.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).

## Citation

Please cite this document as:

Yale ReiSoleil, @dRadiant, D Wang, PhD, et al., "EIP-nFR.md: NFT Future Rewards (nFR) Standard," Ethereum Improvement Proposals, no. xxx, May 2022. [Online serial]. Available: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-nFR.md.

## Endnotes

1.  Zach Burks, James Morgan, [EIP-2981](https://github.com/VexyCats/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-2981.md)
2.  Andreas Freund, [EIP-4910](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/4910/commits/8fd87b4ec3dbfce40e38325f3b8a69f337368661): Proposal for a standard for onchain Royalty Bearing NFTs
3.  Quantexa, https://www.quantexa.com/blog/detect-wash-trades/
4.  https://beincrypto.com/95-trading-volume-looksrare-linked-wash-trading/
5.  https://decrypt.co/91847/significant-wash-trading-money-laundering-nft-market-chainalysis

> 6.  It is still one of the top-5 crypto exchanges today.

Reviewer 2: Thank you for your review. All suggestions committed.
